Our system uses
image processing and segmentation to identify food portions
(i.e., isolating portions such as chicken, rice, vegetables, and so
on, from the overall food image), measures the volume of each
food portion, and calculates nutritional facts of each portion by
calculating the mass of each portion from its measured volume
and matching it against existing nutritional fact tables


page 3 BRIEF WORKING

Calorie is a typical measuring unit, which is defined as the
amount of heat energy needed to raise the temperature of one
gram of water by 1° [19]. This unit is commonly used to
measure the overall amount of energy in any food portion that
consists of the main food components of carbohydrate, protein,
and fat. In addition to gram units, calorie units are also adopted
in developing nutritional facts tables. Each person should take
a certain amount of calories daily. If this amount is increased,
it will lead to gain weight.

calorie table from pdf and block diagram.

images
are taken by the user with a mobile device followed by
a preprocessing step. Then, at the segmentation step, each
image will be analyzed to extract various segments of the
food portion.

For each detected
food portion, a feature extraction process has to be performed.
In this step, various food features including size, shape, color,
and texture will be extracted. The extracted features will be
sent to the classification step where, using the support vector
machine (SVM) scheme, the food portion will be identified.
Finally, by estimating the area of the food portion and using
some nutritional tables, the calorie value of the food will be
extracted.

page 4 TECHNICAL DETAILS

We used a Gabor filter-bank

gabor filter:
In image processing, a Gabor filter, named after Dennis Gabor, is a linear filter used for texture analysis,
which means that it basically analyzes whether there are any specific frequency content in the image in
specific directions in a localized region around the point or region of analysis

It is highly
suitable for our purpose where the texture features are obtained
by subjecting each image to a Gabor filtering operation in a
window around each pixel.
we used Gabor filter for texture segmentation.

In the implementation phase, each image is divided into 4 × 4
blocks, and each block is convolved with Gabor filter. Six
orientations and five scales Gabor filters are used, and the
mean and variance of the Gabor sizes are calculated for each
block. In our project, using Gabor filter, we can identify five
different textures and their identities as soft, rough, smooth,
porous, and wavy, as shown in Table II. In this table, for each
texture, the number of used image samples for training phase
is reported as well.
As the figure below shows, we have used these features as
our classification inputs and the results will be the input of the
SVM phase. For each feature, several categories are engaged,

Once the food items are segmented and their features are
extracted, the next step is to identify the food items using
statistical pattern recognition techniques. Afterward, the food
item has to be classified, using SVM mechanism

SVM :
        SVM is one of the popular techniques used for data
classification. A classification task usually involves training
and testing data, which consist of some data instances. Each
instance in the training set contains one class label and several
features. The goal of SVM is to produce a model, which
predicts target value of data instances in the testing set, which
are given only by their attributes.


For increasing the accuracy For increasing the accuracy.

The system then measures the volume of each food portion
and converts it to mass, using available density tables, and
finally uses the mass and nutritional tables to measure the
overall calorie and nutrients in the food



install-docs --install-changed
